Hi everyone!
In this video we will learn some other building exceptions in Python.
It's not required to know each of these exceptions, but it's still recommended because exception is
one of the most important topic to learn Python to pass the certification, and also to be a good developer
to make our code more robust and prevent it from crashing due to errors.
Let's start by the first exception arithmetic error raised when an error occurs in numeric calculation.
If you remember, we just see arithmetic error and we said that this exception has two subclasses.
Let's remember together.
Arithmetic error has two subclasses overflow error and zero division error.
Zero division error.
When we have a division by zero overflow error when a result of numeric calculation is too large.
Also, arithmetic error Order is a subclass of exception, and exception is a subclass of base exceptions.
Let's go back to other exceptions.
Assertion error raised when an assert statement fails.
Attribute error raised when attribute reference or assignment fails.
Exception base class for all exception index error raised when an index of a sequence does not exist.
Error raised when EQ does not exist in a dictionary.
We have also value error raised when there is a wrong value in a specified data type.
Unicode error and Unicode encode error or decode error raised when we have problems with encoding and
decoding.
Zero division error.
We just see that memory error raised when a program runs out of memory.
Name error raised when a variable does not exist.
Overflow.
Error.
It's one of the subclass of arithmetic error.
Runtime error.
Raised when an error occurs that does not belong to any specific exceptions.
Syntax error.
Raised when syntax error occurs.
Type error.
Raised when two different types are combined.
For example, we do a concatenation between integer and string.
Inbound.
Local error.
Raised when a local variable is referenced before assignment.
Let's go to PyCharm and starting by this example inbound local error.
We have exceptions when a local variable is referenced before assignment.
This is the example.
We have a function.
We try to use the variable x but before assignment.
In this case, Python will raise the exception.
Inbound local error.
Inbound local error cannot access local variable X where it is not associated with a value.
We need to assign a value to this local variable and after that we can use it.
Like.
In this example, we assign the value ten to the local variable x, and after that we can print it.
Let's execute the code.
The result is ten.
Print this variable in the console.
Second example arithmetic error.
We just learned about arithmetic error in the example for assertion error.
Let's go back to the definition of assertion error.
Assertion error raised when an assert statement fails.
We define assert statement with the keyword assert.
If this condition is not true, we will raise an assertion error and print the message.
Division by zero is not allowed.
Let's do the first example.
We call our function divide, which takes two parameters a and b.
We pass ten to the variable e and two to the variable b.
Two is not equal to zero.
In this case the function will be executed without any problem.
The result is 5.0.
Because the condition is true.
We don't have assertion error, but if this condition is not true, Python in this case will raise the
assertion error and print the message.
Division by zero is not allowed.
Let's go back to the second example.
A take then and B take zero.
Let's execute the code.
The result is assertion error.
Division by zero is not allowed because the condition return false.
In this example, the assert statement checks that B is not zero.
If B is zero, the code will raise an assertion error with the message division by zero is not allowed.
For the other examples, we will see and do other cases in the upcoming chapters.
That's it for this video.